## Finding Voice in Music
 When I started making music, I think most of my effort was based around learning technical skills like "how do I eq this?", "what does a good mix sound like?", "How do I master? Is it necessary?", "How can I understand how synths work and understand sound design?" etc etc. By no means has my effort around this ended. I will never learn everything there is to know, and there will never be a time when my current skills can't be improved. However, I have enough technical understanding under my belt now to diversify and spread my time and energy across topics outside of just technical stuff. I think this can be most obviously qualified in my brain by the types of things I focused on when I listened to music. When I listen to music in any form, I think I am always sort of analyzing it, or more accurately I am listening to things I like and writing them down in a book in my brain. When I first started almost all of these little notes in my brain were about technical-ish things like "I like the sound of this kick or this snare", "This is a cool lead", "I really like the mix here" etc etc, but now these little notes in my brain have become increasingly abstract. Nowadays I am noting things in my brain like "Oh I like the order or larger arrangement of this song", "oh the motion of notes vertically and horizontally is really interesting here", "I like the orchestration here, how the instruments interact with each other, and how it hits my brain/how it makes me feel". Things like that. This is all to say I think I've become more focused on the concept of composition.
# Composition
 Wikipedia explains the concept of composition in the following way: Musical composition can refer to [...] the structure of a musical piece or to the process of creating or writing a new piece of music. I think this is a fair definition, but for the sake of me expressing my understanding and conceptualization of the idea of composition in my head, I will define it like so: Composition refers to the process of combining elements or ideas at multiple levels of a hierarchy of increasing specificity. This is a somewhat vague definition, but as it applies to music I think about one of these levels of hierarchy as a movement of ideas, and within a level there are more levels of increasingly smaller movements of ideas, and within those movements smaller movements. Imagine an album; we can see that there is a theme over the album, a general movement of ideas, or a story. These movements are expressed through the tracks in the album, each track is made up of arrangements of chords or melodies which are composed of further movement of the pitches or harmonies within these sections or it could be expressed through lyrics and a story told through that. The concepts expressed through this story have even higher levels of hierarchy with their own shadow clone-like expression in different or the same elements. Maybe there is a large concept with parts explained in pieces in the tracks and these parts can interact with each other even non linearly. This applies to all art: manga, paintings, music, film, books, poetry, etc etc etc. These movements of ideas are affected and expressed through a *voice*.
# The Voice of an Artist
 For me at least developing a voice, the way your brain expresses and develops movement, is one of the hardest things to intentionally improve because it is an extremely abstract concept, and if you have no idea what you are even trying to develop it becomes a nearly impossible task. I have learned that this voice is not developed, but rather, it is found. It slowly develops in your insides until one day something clicks and you realize that you have created something with deliberate purpose and intentional movement both intentionally and unintentionally. You may have been finding and refining pieces of this music, and in the process of conceptualizing and putting these units together realize a deliberate movement has been made at higher, bigger levels of hierarchy even **without** you realizing. I honestly am not great at this, but it is something I am desperately and sometimes futilely trying to improve. I have begun to admire the technical skill of an artist less, in favor of admiring the voice that they have regardless of their success or how *good* it sounds (in an objective sense like mix or master or whatever). I have realized that the power of an artist's voice is not measured by numbers. It is solely decided by how it affects me. If a piece or album or song or concept affects me at a great level, the voice must be powerful at least relative to how it interacts with my brain. Some artists I have recently been really admiring the voice of are <a href = "https://soundcloud.com/dawndx"> Dawn Dx (a friend of mine who is super talented)</a>, <a href = "https://soundcloud.com/fredagain"> Fred again.. </a>, <a href = "https://www.youtube.com/@ichikoaoba-hermine"> Ichiko Aoba </a>, and <a href = https://soundcloud.com/youknowlimbo"> limbo </a> (all of these are SoundCloud links except Ichiko Aoba which is a youtube link so anyone can listen :D). All of these have a really powerful voice whether they are expressing simple or complex concepts.
# The Process of Finding My Voice
 I am extremely happy to say that recently I think I really have been developing a voice, and I think I have improved greatly (not that it's good just that it's much better than what I was doing before). I recently made a set for a club show that I did. It was all in Ableton and not really live so I had soooo much control over what was happening and how ideas connected without worrying about me screwing up or something. There were 7 songs total and three of them were IDs that I made (tracks I made specifically for this track that as of now are unnamed and aren't released). As I created these I realized that I was moving in them in a way that I wasn't fully aware of. As I got further in their production I started to feel how they connected at a fundamental level that was extremely satisfying. When I was finding other tracks for this set, I had a general, ineffable concept in my brain of what I wanted to happen in the set, and as I found things this concept became clearer and more refined to the point by the end I was searching for things that would fill an extremely specific role in the set, and when I sat down to put the set together, it fit together like how a puzzle can fit in pieces that have gaps between that group of pieces and the whole puzzle. I was setting tracks in the project file with space in between like I knew track 2 and 3 were obviously together, 1 and 5 were together, obviously track 6 was the final track, obviously group 2 came before group 1 and there was a gap of something else in between, and there was a gap between group 1 and the final track. I felt the spaces and gaps in the set, and I understood intuitively, generally what was supposed to fill those gaps. This was riveting and so satisfying and made me feel like I was doing *it*. I did it. I made music with purpose. When I finished this set, despite the obvious refinement it needed in certain areas, I was so proud of it. I am really excited to release this set once I refine it, and I have even floated the idea of my head of removing the songs that weren't mine, writing for the role in my brain that these tracks played, putting them in the void left by the removed songs, and releasing it as an album. This is a *very* exciting idea to me (^_^).
# How I Am Working to Improve My Voice Now
 Moving forward I want to improve the clarity of my voice to others by controlling and refining the level of abstraction at a macro level so it's more clear what I am trying to say when certain things are more abstract and certain things are less abstract, and I want to improve the power of my voice at a fairly small level. With the latter, I have noticed that the way I compose melodies and harmonies can be a bit repetitive at times. I have a tendency to write in blocks of midi and when I create new parts and new sections I often use the same blocks but with small changes like small changes in rhythm or maybe I raise it an octave or arpeggiate it. I don't think this is super noticeable, but I think doing this really robs me of a tool I have to imbue it with my voice and I lose an amount of je ne sais quoi that I would otherwise have. I'm going to start composing and producing really trying to limit my using cmd + D to just duplicate stuff or copy pasting. I hope this helps. Thank you for reading I really appreciate it ◝(ᵔᵕᵔ)◜